---
layout: archive
title: "Rank theory approach to ridge, LASSO, preliminary test and Stein-type estimators: A comparative study"
collection: publications
permalink: /publications/SNN2018
published: true
excerpt: " "
---
Arashi, M., Norouzirad, M., Ahmed, S. E., and Yuzbasi, B. (2018). Rank-based Liu regression, Computational Statistics, 33(3), 1525–1561.

[Download Paper](https://link.springer.com/article/10.1007/s00180-018-0809-8)


## Abstract 
----
In the development of efficient predictive models, the key is to identify suitable predictors to establish a prediction model for a given linear or nonlinear model. 
This paper provides a comparative study of ridge regression, least absolute shrinkage and selector operator (LASSO), preliminary test (PTE) and Stein-type estimators
based on the theory of rank statistics. Under the orthonormal design matrix of a given linear model, we find that the rank-based ridge estimator outperforms the usual 
rank estimator, restricted R-estimator, rank-based LASSO, PTE and Stein-type R-estimators uniformly. On the other hand, neither LASSO nor the usual R-estimator, 
preliminary test and Stein-type R-estimators outperform the other. The region of dominance of LASSO over all the R-estimators (except the ridge R-estimator) 
is the sparsity-dimensional interval around the origin of the parameter space. We observe that the L2-risk of the restricted R-estimator equals the lower bound on the
L2-risk of LASSO. Our conclusions are based on L2-risk analysis and relative L2-risk efficiencies with related tables and graphs.

