---
layout: archive
title: "Testing the hypothesis of a nested block covariance matrix structure with applications to medicine and natural sciences"
collection: publications
permalink: /publications/CNM2024
published: true
excerpt: " "
---
Coelho, C. A., Norouzirad, M., Marques, F. J. (2024). Testing the hypothesis of a nested block covariance matrix structure with applications to medicine and natural sciences, 
Mathematical Methods in the Applied Sciences,  1–35, DOI 10.1002/mma.10377. 

[Download Paper](https://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1002/mma.10377)


## Abstract 
----
This paper addresses the challenge of testing the hypothesis of what the authors call a nested block circular-compound symmetric (NBCCS) covariance structure for the population
covariance matrix. This is a covariance structure which has an outer block compound symmetric structure, where the diagonal blocks are themselves block circular matrices, while 
the off-diagonal blocks are formed by all equal matrices. The NBCCS null hypothesis is decomposed into sub-hypotheses, allowing this way for a simpler way to obtain a likelihood 
ratio test and its associated statistic. The exact moments of this statistic are derived, and its distribution is carefully examined. Given the complicated nature of this 
distribution, highly precise near-exact distributions were developed. Numerical studies are conducted to assess the proximity between these near-exact distributions and the exact 
distribution, highlighting the performance of these approximations, even in the case of very small sample sizes. Furthermore, three datasets, on bone mineral content, metabolic
rates of glucose, and soil moisture are used to exemplify the practical application of the methodology derived in this study.
